Isaac Turner. the home secretary...
was shot and fatally wounded
by a gunman in westminster.
It's not him.
I want you to put eyes on Danny hart.
And bring Gemma garland in.
- Gemma garland's suspended. ma'am.
- For questioning.
Correction is in play.
Tom. They're all suspects.
- We've got another meeting.
- Cash flow?
Tracked his vehicle to
white rabbit's home address.
Get into their devices. I
want to hear every word.
Remember. you may need a
favour from a guy like me one day.
Doesn't look like police.
Who's protecting you?
The deputy commissioner? Is
he involved? The commissioner?
How far up does this go?
You think you can lie to my face
and I'll doubt myself
like some gas lit girlfriend?
The commander's taking a
new. er. lead in the investigation.
Rachel. you better come and see this?
You're not going anywhere.
You should've killed me
when you had the chance.
You still think whitlock
is fake news. don't you?
He's involved one way or another.
I told you he should
never have been let out.
I think it's fair to say
he's not working alone.
- He's been receiving instructions.
- From?
- Simon.
- That name's coming up a lot.
Simon says 66.
Frank. we've arrested James whitlock.
You might need to... rein it in.
Well. I wish I could. fast-track.
but I'm kind of on of a roll here.
I never met a marine
with a heart murmur.
That a recent accessory?
Something happen on tour?
Frank! Noah pierson is my suspect.
You got me.
I'm a stone-cold killer.
This programme contains scenes which some
viewers may find upsetting from the start.
strong language and
some violent scenes.
Yes?
Sorry to trouble you.
sir. Update from tech.
Authorisation required
for executive action.
Simon's flagged a concern.
Black fish has lost command of ctc.
God!
Who do you work for?
We are seeing data to suggest
the operative currently
poses a security risk.
- Data from who?
- From black fish himself. sir.
Or from his heart monitor to be exact.
Even if I tried to explain
it. you wouldn't understand!
The data suggests the operative
is suffering increasing stress levels
and a heightened risk
of acute medical trauma.
Reads like interrogation.
not compromise.
What makes Simon think he'll fold?
The operative's heart implant
itself is at risk of failure. sir.
Also appears his handset is down.
If black fish cannot find a
way to power his device.
he will correctly assume his life
is in danger. and he may... talk.
How many more volts can your
heart take before you blow a fuse. son?
He hasn't yet.
Would you like me to
go back to Simon. sir?
Simon's drafted three options.
There's. one. extraction -
chance of compromise. 26%.
Two. burn the operative -
chance of compromise. 16%.
- Option three. executive action.
- Chance of compromise. 2%.
Yes. people are less inclined
to talk when they're dead.
Simon recommends option three. sir.
With your approval. of course.
Do it right.
He was a good op. by all accounts.
Option three. approved.
Stand by for executive
action on black fish.
Deactivation. standing by.
Pull the plug.
What the fuck? It
can't be the cattle-prod.
It can't? You just put 50.000
volts through him. frank.
What are you. amnesty international?
What the fuck is the protocol?
I mean what do we do? Are we
supposed to jump-start the engine?
Phone... What's he saying?
- He wants his phone.
- Fuck it. Cut his arm loose.
No way.
Yes?
Bit of an update. sir.
Executive action deployed. as instructed.
The operative's heart implant was
remotely deactivated at 12.39pm.
But?
The operative's implant
was subsequently found to be
active again at 12.41pm.
The operative. er. it appears
managed to deploy a charging device.
- His handset?
- It would appear to be his handset.
- Yes. sir.
- His handset was down.
It would appear his handset...
subsequently became
active again at 12.41pm.
The captain's alive.
Alive and well. it would seem. sir.
Heart-rate's stabilised.
blood-pressure's back to normal.
Black fish is mobile.
Does he know what we did to him?
Rachel! Excellent timing.
Just got back a moment ago myself.
You look like you've seen a ghost.
There's only one way
through this. Rachel.
What's that?
Together.
This interview is being recorded
and may be given in evidence
if this case goes to trial.
I'm detective inspector Nadia latif.
The other officer present is...
Ma'am?
Acting... deputy
commander Rachel Carey.
Acting deputy commander?
Make your mind up.
I want all the footage off
that. by the way. I'm allowed.
If he's not at his base
and he's not there...
I know of three other locations he uses.
Or has done in the past.
A building site in rotherhithe.
A disused car park on the isle of dogs.
And a warehouse in deptford.
It's never a gastropub
overlooking the thames. is it?
- My money's on the warehouse.
- Hope you're right.
All these locations. I may have
to start invoicing for mileage.
Well. I can... hardly
doorstep him myself. can I?
- The man viscerally loathes me.
- Sir?
Yeah. strange he still
bears a grudge. isn't it?
When all you did was. well.
hack his medical records.
make him believe he had cancer.
Frank was out of control.
Somebody needed to intervene.
Besides. you have to
cross the line sometimes.
That's how you know where the line is.-.
Your line keeps moving. Gemma.
I'll check out deptford.
How would you prefer to be
addressed? James? Jamie?
Mr whitlock?
I'd like you to call me James.
And I'd like you to call me Jamie.
And if either of you
gets it wrong. you're out.
Movement. Cash flow's mobile.
Stay on him.
Copy that.
You've waived your rights to
legal representation. Jamie. Why is that?
Never met a lawyer I liked.
They tend to come in handy
when you've been
arrested for a serious crime.
Didn't last time.
Stand down surveillance on cash flow.
Phone. follow. and cctv.
Sir.
All units stand down
surveillance on cash flow.
Abort. Abort.
All units stand down
surveillance on cash flow.
You understand that you're under arrest
for the preparation of terrorist acts.
conspiracy to commit mass murder...
and possession of
an unlicensed firearm?
That rifle's not unlicensed.
Still in dispute with southern
counties firearms about that.
Who wants to brief me
on whitlock's previous?
Malicious communications. threats to kill.
conspiracy to murder. Overturned.
Was the investigation run
out of ctc or serious crime?
Ooh. er...
What was the name of
whitlock's arresting officer?
Who was the sio?
Sorry. a bit before my time. sir.
If only there was a
way of looking stuff up.
Request the original case
files from the archives.
Yes. sir.
Where were you yesterday
afternoon. around 1pm?
Down the coast. obviously. Abbot's cliff.
Why obviously?
One o'clock was the eta.
Of the vessel.
You mean the dinghy? The
undocumented migrants?
The land invasion.
How did you know
what time it would arrive?
Last phone communication
was yesterday morning
just before 7am.
A message from a
contact named Simon.
Are we tracking that number?
Sir. I'm still trying. It's fire-walled to fuck.
If you're interested in properties
by the sea. Abbot's cliff is nice.
We're struggling to
get in touch with Simon.
Have you tried his landline?
Do you know his surname?
Like he's going to tell me that.
You're close then?
Yeah. you can't get close
to someone like Simon.
Not where he is.
Where's that?
Deep.
It's deeper than you.
This'll be the part where you
deny the deep state exists.
No.
Which department of the deep
state does Simon work for. Jamie?
Simon tells me what I need
to know and nothing more.
Have you ever met Simon? In person?
What. when he's already
risking his life as it is?
What do you think?
Well. how do you know
he is who he says he is?
Why did you leave your phone behind
when you went down the coast. Jamie?
I went off-radar.
Is that a problem?
Might be for you.
It makes it harder for us
to verify your whereabouts.
It makes it harder for us to prove
that you were down by the coast.
as you say. and not somewhere else.
Like westminster for instance.
Westminster?
Why would I go there?
To assassinate Isaac Turner.
To what?...? Isa...?
Come on. Jamie.
He's been assassinated?
What. is that why you've brought me...?
Is that who you think I've...?
You think I assassinated the
home secretary of Great Britain?
I've got to say. I don't see it myself.
Assassinating a secretary
of state. that takes...
military-precision
planning and execution.
You don't have the experience.
the skills. or the discipline.
Yeah. you sure about that?
Picking off defenceless targets
at sea. that's more your style.
No.
The man who killed Isaac Turner
was a professional assassin.
You don't strike me as a
professional anything. Jamie.
Was it your idea to
leave your phone behind?
Or was it Simon's?
Sir. hard copies of James
whitlock's original case files.
- There's a lot more to come...
- Sh!
Just a second.
It's standard procedure for covert ops.
It seems to me Simon wanted
you off-radar for a reason.
Simon made sure your
whereabouts at the time of the attack
were unknown to everyone but himself.
She's giving him an alibi.
Wake up. Jamie.
Whoever Simon is. he is not your friend.
You're going to be looking at
25 years for Abbot's cliff alone.
Add westminster and you
are going to rot in belmarsh
for the rest of your life.
So stop trying to defend him
and start helping us find him.
Then maybe you and
I can talk about a deal.
Sorry. ma'am.
Interview suspended.
Commander pierson
asked me to step in.
You'd better step in then.
Rachel!
Glad I caught you.
Sorry I needed some. air.
So you came to an
underground car park?
Sorry I had to pull you out of there.
Felt like you were
going a bit off-message.
Bit of a Walter mitty. isn't
he. old Jamie whitlock?
He's certainly an
impressionable young man.
All that Simon stuff.
I'd be willing to bet Simon's a
figment of whitlock's imagination!
We're having a hard time
tracing him. aren't we?
Are you sure it's not
rest you need. Rachel?
Yeah.
Yeah. probably.
Well. for heaven's sake. take some.
You've earned it.
But before you disappear...
that catch-up...
It's probably easier if I show you.
Won't take a minute.
I take it you're familiar with the
camera coverage down here?
I am.
So you'll be aware there
are two cameras facing us.
but no line of sight to
the inside of my boot.
So try not to react.
It's put us in quite the pickle.
the Geneva convention.
He poses no physical threat.
but wizard has enough dirt on
us to see me tried at the hague.
and you fired for wilful
misconduct. amongst other things.
so I think it's in all our
interests to reach an agreement.
Any thoughts?
I believe there's a budget at
my discretion for consultants.
No doubt so15 could use
a man of wizard's talents.
Subject to security clearance. of course.
Look. I don't know
what he meant to you...
napier...
but big picture. no-one's
going to miss him.
We saved the CIA a pension's all we did.
Seven pensions. to be exact.
Why did you do it?
Honestly?
You left me no choice.
No. I'm not talking about them.
I'm talking about Isaac Turner.
It's a shame the Geneva
convention didn't stop you
before you killed him in cold blood!
I think the world would be a
kinder place if everyone stopped
leaping to the least generous
conclusions about everyone else.
I suggest you keep him in a
safe house until he's fully vetted.
And please... drive carefully.
Well... I... I can't... I can't leave in this.
Sure you can. We can't
both keep going walkabout.
Clock's ticking on whitlock.
One of us needs to stay to
make sure we charge the fucker.
I can't... I can't drive across London
with a man tied up in my boot!
Well. you can't take
him on the northern line.
Go on.
Give up! Give up!
You're going to die. you can't take it!
You're going to die!
Give. give up! Give it up!
Say it! Say it now!
Stop!
Take the straps off! Straps
off! Get him down on the ground!
Deep breaths.
How did that compare?
Increased awareness.
I could block out the pain for longer.
Perception of time was clearer. I think.
Did you count the seconds?
22?
- 22.4. Are we safe to continue?
- Yes. sir.
Let's increase the
methylphenidate to 90 milligrams.
increase the dextroamphetamine to 45.
Dr neuman?
Forgive me. colonel.
If the operative's stats have stabilised
and his mission isn't compromised.
what makes you think
he still poses a threat?
We made an attempt on his life.
A person could take
umbrage at a thing like that.
Although the extent to which he is
or was aware of the
attempt remains unclear.
Then we have to assume
that he suspects interference.
Is it a problem if he does?
Is it a problem if he thinks
we flicked his kill-switch?
Where is he now?
Black fish has command of ctc.
He returned to his mission.
like a deep cover op should.
Does that sound like a
man that's gone rogue?
Not yet.
Would you want him
back in your platoon.
if he bore a grudge?
Sir. in the four years the
captain served with us.
he outperformed every
op in the squadron.
He's got an ego.
And a chip on his
shoulder about the pull-out.
But when it comes to our programme.
he's as committed as any of us.
We all know what we signed up for. sir.
Thank you. major.
It's true. a dog rarely turns on his master.
Even when the master turns on the dog.
What does Simon think?
Simon's asking for more intelligence.
One empathises.
- Noah.
- Sir!
To what do I owe the pleasure?
I just wanted to say
congratulations on whitlock.
Thank you. sir.
He's not charged yet.
And to invite you to dinner!
Dinner? That's that thing people have
when they're allowed to
leave work in the evenings!
Well. whenever you have time.
I know that you're a busy man.
Thank you. sir. I'd be honoured.
As I say. James whitlock
is not charged yet.
You've reached frank's fun house.
Please leave a message.
Yeah. that's all been taken care of.
All right.
Ok.
Colonel figgis?
Yes. Cameron. Good afternoon.
My analysis supports your analysis.
Black fish has resumed
his mission. I can confirm.
How does he seem?
He... appeared... pensive. somewhat.
- I must admit.
- Pensive?
Goodness. Am I on with the whole army?
Pensive. you were saying?
Yes. Rattled.
Slightly rattled.
But then the sudden
appearance of a boss can do that.
I wouldn't draw anything
too conclusive from it.
Thank you. Cameron.
I really wouldn't... Thank you. Cameron.
Colonel. I must add that
it was extremely difficult
to get black fish into ctc in such
an impossibly tight time frame.
Now. if we had to repeat the process
with a different candidate now...
I can't promise that it would succeed.
Colonel figgis?
We're still here.
Well. of course. where there's a will.
Yeah.
Yeah. I've got to go.
Don't suppose you'd know
anything about a grey Toyota
that's been tailing me. by any chance?
Who gave you the authority to be here?
2017 Toyota prius. This afternoon.
This is a crime scene.
The chain of evidence
has been compromised.
- It was there. then it wasn't.
- Urgh!
I need to call socos and coroners!
Go on. then.
They've taken half the evidence!
Shall I ask them to put it back?
This is proof he's a killer! He did this.
He who?
Identify yourself!
Charming!
I knew you'd forget
me one day but this is...
Why are you covering for him?
Who are you working with?
Who am I working with?
The last incoming call
was from your number.
If I were to go back. how
many more calls would I find
between you and frank napier?
You know. Rachel. in some
ways you're really clever.
but in other ways you're really not.
You came up fast. I'll give you that.
but you came up so fast you
forgot to make friends along the way.
So fast they forgot to teach
you one of the fundamentals.
Sooner or later. you're going to fuck up.
And when you do. it won't be
the commissioner who'll come
to haul you out of a ditch
at three in the morning.
it'll be the officers you started with.
On the ground.
The relationships you
have built over the years.
Through loyalty and trust.
And blackmail.
Shut up. George. You're
not even meant to be here.
Guv.
I didn't ask for your help. Danny.
No. you asked fucking frank napier.
Apparently. you'd sooner
ask frank. Gemma garland
or just about anyone else
before you'd come to me.
Yet. look who's here for you now.
- I...
- If you needed help. Rachel.
for god's sake why did you
go to frank instead of me?
It was an emergency!
There was a hostile actor taking over ctc!
Well you can't stop him if
you're extradited to the us
to explain what the fuck happened here!
Fuck!
Fuck. I fucked up.
Yes. you did.
Fuck...
I fucked up. Danny.
It's going to be all right.
Fuck! No...
Rachel. it's going to be all right.
but you have to listen to me now.
Ok?
We've had eyes on you
since the attack at the qeii.
I've pulled your surveillance already.
You're not being tailed any more.
Why were you here looking for frank?
Why are they taking pictures of him?
All in good time. Rachel.
All in good time.
If at all.
Shall we get you to a safe house?
There's something else.
Ralph?!
Check wizard for tracking devices.
Wizard?
Ralph.
Left shoe. It's in my left shoe.
He put it in the sole. It's... He put it there.
My tablets.
Sciatica.
You haven't changed.
Guv?
Looks like you've had
quite the afternoon. Ralph?
Did you see what happened in there?
I should never like to see that man again.
Commissioner.
Not intruding. I hope?
Commander pierson.
Thanks for the check-in.
earlier. Appreciate that.
No problem.
It's weird.
No-one checks in when I'm unarmed
and outnumbered seven-to-one.
but that's ok. We're all busy.
But please know...
mission recalibrated and resumed.
Of course.
And should something happen
to me. commissioner. please know
I will rise from the grave and make
sure something happens to you.
And your children.
And your grandchildren.
Where are we going?
Reubens road.
You got a problem with that?
Just... give me a minute.
Ma'am?
Tom. How's everything
with... white rabbit?
No change. no change.
Pull all surveillance.
Is everything all right. ma'am?
It's just. resources. Tom.
Can we go now?
Where are they...? Where
are they taking them?
Chessington world of adventures.
Pull surveillance detail on white rabbit.
Phone. follow. and...
Cctv. sir?
No.
Cctv - no change. no change.
Ok.
Why would I want to kill Isaac Turner?
I barely even knew who he was.
Why would you want to kill a
boatload of asylum seekers?
I wouldn't.
You nearly did.
Firearms said that you
had them in your sight.
A minute later. there
would've been a blood bath.
Really?
How was I going to open
fire with no ammunition?
Firearms didn't mention that then?
They wouldn't have found a single bullet.
What was it then. Jamie?
A dry run?
You seen the scope on that rifle?
I can spot a small boat
three miles out with that.
Gives me plenty of time to start shooting.
With a camera.
Whitlock's rifle. what's the calibre?
Rifle is an ax338 bolt-action.
You're making a film now. Jamie?
Is that what you're telling us?
Why do you think we're doing all this?
If the government won't tell us
how many illegals are coming in.
someone has to record the truth.
So unless making
documentaries is against the law.
you got nothing on me in Abbot's cliff.
Simon told me to go there. so I did.
Just like your colleague said.
And you can't prove
that I was in westminster
any more than I can prove I wasn't.
So far. all you've got is
your word against mine.
So are you going to
charge me with something
or can I go home to my kids?
Rachel.
Rachel. Come in. come in.
Ralph!
I am sure I thought you were dead.
Nah. Still alive. Gemma.
Just about.
Well. thank goodness.
You've had us under surveillance.
I presume you've been
monitoring frank napier. too?
We'll need all the cctv footage.
Everything you have on napier.
Why?
Do you understand the extraordinary
risks that have been taken.
and will need to be taken
in order to clean up this...
Well. there's no other word for it.
- Shitshow.
- Clusterfuck.
Mess?
I can't stop the us investigating
when one of theirs is missing in action.
But I might be able to delay them.
Besides yourself and pierson.
who else knows napier's dead?
How often would frank
check in with the embassy?
Once a week.
In person?
No. no. no.
No. not if he could help it. no.
Frank napier is not
dead until we say he is.
Hay fever.
I do find negotiations crass.
It's the one thing the
Americans do better than us.
They just have a way of
coming out and saying it
that seems to elude me.
We expect things in return
is what I think Gemma
here's trying to say.
Yes.
There you go.
We expect things in return.
What do you want?
There are files in the
archive on James whitlock.
His earlier case.
What about them?
They were redacted.
Heavily.
We'd like them to stay that way.
Is that it?
No. Rachel. No. That's not it.
That barely touches the sides.
A man is sitting in interrogation.
soon to be charged with
the murder of Isaac Turner.
And the man we should be
charging has infiltrated so15.
taken over counter terrorism.
without a word of complaint
from the commissioner's office.
and all you two seem to care about
is exploiting my efforts to stop him!
I offered you my help with Noah pierson.
That offer still stands.
Two things can be true at once.
Whitlock can be guilty
even if he's innocent.
What is this?
For the benefit of the recording.
DC tan is showing video footage
recorded during the qeii attack.
Do you recognise the
figure on the screen?
No. No.
No way. I'm not doing this.
- Can you look at the screen please. Jamie?
- You can't make me watch it.
For the benefit of the recording.
the suspect is refusing
to look at the screen.
Do you think I don't
know how you do this?
This is how you fitted me up last time!
You got nothing on
me so you make it up!
Just like Simon said you would.
Well. it's not going to work this time.
It's not going to work
cos you got nothing on me.
I wasn't in westminster.
I was in Abbot's cliff and you
got nothing on me there either!
No bullets. because there
weren't any bullets to find.
No shootings. because nobody got shot.
Nothing! Do you think
I'm fucking stupid?
Do you think I wasn't
going to know what this is?
How do you think I got out early?
I've got more on all of
you than you've got on me
cos I know what this is! This is deepfake!
This is correction!
James whitlock.
Do you recognise the
figure on the screen?
No! No. I don't!
Get back! Get down!
- Ok!
- I said. get down!
Stay back! Don't touch
me! Don't come near me!
Right. get me a lawyer.
- Get him down!
- Get me a lawyer!
This is not happening to me again!
- Cuff him.
- It's not happening to me again!
- Calm down!
- This is not... - Calm down!
This is not happening to me again!
Get down! Calm down!
You've seen what he's capable of.
He put down six armed
guards single-handedly.
He can appear and disappear
from government buildings
without a trace.
Simon.
Does that name mean anything to you?
What's the connection?
James whitlock was groomed online.
He thinks he's been talking
to some deep state insider.
Well. for all I know. maybe he is.
Either way. Simon has been
setting whitlock up from the start.
and just like pierson. my
ops room can't trace him.
Does that offer of help still stand?
What?
Beg your pardon. sir.
was it the calibre of the rifle you wanted?
The rounds.
No rounds came in with the weapon. sir.
That's impossible.
Check the logs.
Gotcha!
How long you been looking for this?
Longer than ten minutes anyway!
What can you tell me?
Well. the messages to James
whitlock from quote-Simon-unquote
didn't come from a phone.
they came from a computer.
A computer?
Where? Do you know?
Would you like the ip
address and location?
The ina?
International nautical agency.
Albert embankment.
Where you going?
What? Am I a prisoner here?
I'm running an investigation.
Not without backup you're not.
It's a standard police enquiry.
Yeah. all the same.
You're not police. Danny.
I'm still the deputy commander of so15.
I need to pursue an urgent line of inquiry
and you have no authority to stop me.
We can't risk something
going wrong again.
Major greggs. who are your best men?
Three. four. six. seven. nine. 12.
You know what to do.
- It's. er. thyroid.
- Aww.
Now. since you're here. Ralph.
can I interest you in
a little freelance work?
Got it?
This can't be right.
Says here the weapon was
recovered with two full mags.
Well. I think you'd better find them. then.
I'm happy to check again. sir.
but I remember the rifle coming in.
If there'd have been any
rounds with it. I'd have s...
seen them.
Everything you said...
about one bloke taking care
of six armed guards on his tod...
in and out of government buildings.
no trace of him anywhere.
Yes?
There's a squadron.
Call themselves the increment.
They're special forces but
not part of the sas or the sbs.
But they select the very best
of the best of the best of both.
As far as I'm aware.
they're answerable to no-one
but themselves and MI6.
Sounds like him.
How do you know so much about it?
Deputy commander Rachel
Carey. I believe you're expecting me.
I understand you've got a warrant.
and you're entitled to look
at any staff laptop you like.
I just need to know
where you want to start.
- How... - Goodnight. Mary.
- Goodnight. Brian.
- See you tomorrow. Mary.
- Night. Hugh.
There's four floors
and 12 offices on each.
- Take your pick. - Bye. Mary.
- Goodnight. Simon.
Which office does he work in?
Simon?
I'm calling it operation Frankenstein.
I think Simon's office
is the one at the end.
Doors closing.
Do you know everyone
who works here by name?
Should do. been here long enough.
You're like busses. you lot.
- Problem?
- Delivery.
Need to sign for it.
You all right if I leave that with you?
Only I've got to...
Sorry. George.
Excuse me. This doesn't...
Ground floor.
Doors opening.
Mind the doors.
We haven't got long.
More are coming.
I strongly suggest you follow me!
Please.
Come on!
Basement.
Rachel. can't you see?
We're better off together.